
Home Page:

Hi, I'm Max.

This is my personal website! Totally the best looking site you've seen ;)

Anyway, what are some things about me? Well my top 4 things I like to do are Tennis, Video Gaming, Travelling, and just hanging with my friends.
I come from a small town in Maine called Boothbay, where my passion for STEM was nurtured by a supportive community.
I currently attend Rochester Institute of Technology as a 4th year software engineer.
I absolutely love coding and am very excited to be coding full-time when I graduate.
And I've been on one co-op, it was this past Summer/Fall of 2020 and I'm currently looking for a co-op for the spring semester.







How It's Made:

--prelude
You may be wondering, What is this mysterious tab called "how it's made" and why does it exist?
Basically, I was looking at different places to apply for spring co-ops and in their application they would have a field for "personal website"
so I thought, why haven't I made a site of my own?
I certainly know how to.

When thinking about what to put on the site I had an idea.
What about the steps I went through to make it?
And thus my journey begins...

So I know that there's two main pieces I'll need, some code that makes up the site, and a machine for the site to be hosted on.
In terms of having a machine to run the site on I knew I had two main options, hosting it on a cloud instance or on a raspberry pi I have lying around.
I decided to go for making a vm instance on AWS for mostly the learning experience and in-case I want to use my raspberry pi for something else later.

So I made an AWS account, booted up a micro ec2-instance on the free tier, set up sshing into the VM, and allowed http and https protocols in the security groups
Now I need to set up the project that will be the code that actually runs

So I went to my favorite ide for web development(Webstorm), made a new React based project, and linked it up to a remote git repository

When making a site choosing a css framework to use can significantly cut down on development time
I decided to go with Tailwind because it's lightweight and allows a lot of customization very rapidly

After choosing a css framework I now have to do all the grunt work including writing this text you're reading and putting in these images you're looking at

Here's what the site looked like real early on (I sure hope it looks better now)

After some work on the site's looks I wanted to make it so that I could actually run the code I've been writing on the VM I had booted up on AWS
So after connecting to the Virtual Machine I installed git, made a folder for the website to be contained within,
pulled the repository from github, installed nodejs and npm, installed dependencies, and then made a production build of the app

After a bit of pain editing the Virtual Machine's security groups again, and messing with installation commands and config files,
I eventually got it so that the nginx landing page would appear when I went to the VM's public ip address

Now I just need to buy a domain name for my site. I used Namecheap and decided on the domain max-hoecker.com because unfortunately maxhoecker.com was already taken by my doppelganger
After buying the domain I just had to make an A record and point it to the ip address of the virtual machine.

And just like that, bada-bing bada-boom I have a website!

Reflection:
Learning experience
definitely worth it
cool seeing how every layer of the tech stack interacts with each other
making things look nice is hard, like 80% of the work

Shout-out to my friend Rachel for helping me figure out how to make the site not look like trash!

Big thanks to https://javascript.plainenglish.io/how-to-trigger-animations-using-react-hooks-27f0231b98b7 for helping figure out animations








Experience:

Here are the highlights of my work experience that I believe to be the most substantial

--This site
If you'd like an in-depth explanation of why I worked on this site and what I did, you can find it on the "How It's Made" tab.
So instead I'll list off here things I'd like to add to the site in the future:
-More responsive
-More animations
-More of my smaller projects

--ScanPower

--Malachowsky

--Supplemental Instruction

--Muze Music Library System
and its emphasis on design






Contact Me:
--email

Feel free to reach out to me about anything

Resume:


Email:
    mjh9131@rit.edu (preferred)
    hoecker.max@gmail.com

Linkedin:
    https://linkedin.com/in/MaxHoecker

Github:
    https://github.com/MaxHoecker